# Equipe API

In this repository we have gathered information on how to extend and integrate with Equipe. 

## Translation

The only way to make proper and professional translation of app.equipe.com and online.equipe.com is to have used the software during serveral shows. When you have done that and want to add support for your native language. Contact us and we will add you as a translator. [Read more](TRANSLATION.mdown)

## Federation

### Guide

Looking to integrate your federation to the world of Equipe? Follow this 6 steps guide to getting started with full featured integration with Equipe. This is overview guide of the steps involved. [Read more](https://github.com/equipe/equipe_api/blob/master/GUIDE.mdown)

### API

This will guide you how to structure your web service to be compliant with https://app.equipe.com to import entires, enable search of riders, officials, horses, clubs and later get results when the show is finished. [Read more](FEDERATION.mdown)

### Single sign on

Allow single sign on for your already authenticated users in your system. [Read more](SINGLE_SIGN_ON.mdown)

## Accounting API

Use this API if you want to fetch all accounting information from Equipe. [Read more](ACCOUNTING.mdown)

## Timekeeping client API

Do you want to render your own running clock? Subscribe the the live data stream to receive everything you need to build your own TV-graphics or Scoreboard integration. [Read more](TIMEKEEING_CLIENT.mdown)

## Dressage client API

Nothing you normally do, but if you want to replace our own dressage client this will guide you. [Read more](DRESSAGE_CLIENT.mdown)

# License

Equipe API docs are licensed under [Creative Commons (CC BY-SA 4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

---

If you have a specific feature request or find a bug, [please open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/equipe/equipe_api/issues/new). We encourage you to fork these docs for local reference and happily accept pull requests with improvements.

